Create-basic-plugin (#166)
massalabs/docs: docs/tutorial/massa-station-plugin/create-basic-plugin.mdx

  - Create a file named `swagger.yml` in the api folder
  - Initialize it with the following basic configuration:

  ```yaml
  consumes:
    - application/json
  info:
    description: Hello world plugin API.
    title: station-massa - Hello world
    version: 0.0.0
  produces:
    - application/json
  schemes:
    - http
  swagger: "2.0"
  paths:
    /:
      get:
        operationId: defaultPage
        responses:
          "301":
            description: Move to the default endpoint
  ```

  :::info

  Here we simply defined a default endpoint that will be called when the plugin is called without any endpoint specified.
  This will be used to display a frontend in the [part 3 of the tutorial](./create-plugin-with-a-frontend.mdx).

  :::

  :::tip

  For a detailed understanding of the API specification and how to edit it, refer to the [official swagger v2 documentation](https://swagger.io/specification/v2/).

  :::

- Create a `generate.go` file: in the root of your project

  :::tip

  this file will generate the API from the swagger file when you run `go generate ./... `

  :::

- Add the following code to it:

  ```go
  package main

>   //go:generate swagger generate server --quiet --target api/server --name station-massa-hello-world --spec api/swagger.yml --exclude-main

Reviewer: ok good.

	"github.com/rs/cors"
)

func killTime(quit chan bool) { // creates a ticker that will send a message every 5 seconds
  // creates a ticker that will send a message every 5 seconds
	ticker := time.NewTicker(5 * time.Second) //nolint:gomnd

	fmt.Fprintf(os.Stdout, "Plugin is initializing.\n")

	for {
		select {
		case <-ticker.C:
			fmt.Fprintf(os.Stdout, "Tic!\n") // logs a message every 5 seconds
		case <-quit:
			fmt.Fprintf(os.Stdout, "Plugin is shutting down.\nBye!\n") // logs a message when the plugin is shutting down

			return
		}
	}
}

func initializeAPI() *restapi.Server {
    swaggerSpec, err := loads.Analyzed(restapi.SwaggerJSON, "") // loads the swagger file
    if err != nil {
        panic(err)
    }

    pluginAPI := operations.NewStationMassaHelloWorldAPI(swaggerSpec) // initializes the API
    server := restapi.NewServer(pluginAPI) // creates the server

    server.ConfigureAPI() // configures the API

    return server
}
```

:::info

The `killTime` function logs a message every 5 seconds. It is used to show that the plugin is running.
The `initializeAPI` function initializes the API and returns the server.

:::

> - Still in `my-plugin.go`, set up the cors: the cors will allow the plugin to be called from the Massa Station server.

Reviewer: first time you mentioned this file.

Author: fixed

```go
func setupGlobalMiddleware(handler http.Handler) http.Handler {
    handleCORS := cors.New(cors.Options{}).Handler

    return handleCORS(handler)
}
```

- Import the necessary packages `go mod tidy`
- Add the `main` function in `my-plugin.go`: it initializes the API and start the server

```go
func main() {
    quit := make(chan bool) // creates a channel to receive the interrupt signal
	intSig := make(chan os.Signal, 1) // notifies the channel when the interrupt signal is received
	signal.Notify(intSig, syscall.SIGINT, syscall.SIGTERM)

	go killTime(quit) // starts the killTime function in a goroutine

	server := initializeAPI() // initializes the API

	if err := server.Serve(); err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	<-intSig
	quit <- true
}
```

- Run the API on a local server to test and validate its functionality.

```bash

> go run ./station-massa-hello-world.go

Reviewer: ```
station-massa-hello-world.go:8:2: package my-plugin/station-massa-hello-world/api/server/restapi is not in GOROOT (/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.20.6/libexec/src/my-plugin/station-massa-hello-world/api/server/restapi)
station-massa-hello-world.go:9:2: package my-plugin/station-massa-hello-world/api/server/restapi/operations is not in GOROOT (/opt/homebrew/Cellar/go/1.20.6/libexec/src/my-plugin/station-massa-hello-world/api/server/restapi/operations)
```

Author: should be good now

	intSig := make(chan os.Signal, 1) // notifies the channel when the interrupt signal is received
	signal.Notify(intSig, syscall.SIGINT, syscall.SIGTERM)

	go killTime(quit) // starts the killTime function in a goroutine

	server := initializeAPI() // initializes the API

	if err := server.Serve(); err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	<-intSig
	quit <- true
}
```

- Run the API on a local server to test and validate its functionality.

```bash
go run ./my-plugin.go
```

- You should get the following output:

```bash
2023/07/24 16:02:51 Serving hello world at http://[::]:41701
Tic!
```

:::tip
The last numbers correspond to the port the API is running on. It will change each time you will restart the plugin.
:::

## Deploy on massastation

### Register the plugin

To do so,
Import the plugin package. `github.com/massalabs/station-massa-hello-world/pkg/plugin`

- Listen to the server created and register the plugin with the `RegisterPlugin` function from the plugin package.

```go
	listener, err := server.HTTPListener()
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	plugin.RegisterPlugin(listener,plugin.Info{}) // registers the plugin

> ```

Reviewer: where should I put this code? in the main function?

Author: yes, I added it

:::info
`plugin.RegisterPlugin` is a function available in the [plugin package](https://github.com/massalabs/station-massa-hello-world/blob/main/pkg/plugin/register.go).

It facilitates the registration of a plugin with Massa Station, assigning a unique correlation ID to the plugin for identification purposes within the Massa Station system.

:::

### Install the plugin

> Build a binary of the plugin. `mkdir build && go build -o build/my-plugin`

Reviewer: we need a proper go get before doing this 

```
my-plugin.go:15:2: no required module provides package github.com/massalabs/station-massa-hello-world/pkg/plugin; to add it:
	go get github.com/massalabs/station-massa-hello-world/pkg/plugin
```

> Move the plugin binary, the manifest and the swagger file to the massastation plugin folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Move the plugin binary, the manifest and the swagger file to the Massa Station plugin folder.
```
